clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/modernize/use-override.rst, before:

.. title:: clang-tidy - modernize-use-override

modernize-use-override
======================

Adds ``override`` (introduced in C++11) to overridden virtual functions and
removes ``virtual`` from those functions as it is not required.

``virtual`` on non base class implementations was used to help indicate to the
user that a function was virtual. C++ compilers did not use the presence of
this to signify an overridden function.

In C++ 11 ``override`` and ``final`` keywords were introduced to allow
overridden functions to be marked appropriately. Their presence allows
compilers to verify that an overridden function correctly overrides a base
class implementation.

This can be useful as compilers can generate a compile time error when:

 - The base class implementation function signature changes.
 - The user has not created the override with the correct signature.

Options
-------

.. option:: IgnoreDestructors

   If set to `true`, this check will not diagnose destructors. Default is `false`.

.. option:: AllowOverrideAndFinal

   If set to `true`, this check will not diagnose ``override`` as redundant
   with ``final``. This is useful when code will be compiled by a compiler with
   warning/error checking flags requiring ``override`` explicitly on overridden
   members, such as ``gcc -Wsuggest-override``/``gcc -Werror=suggest-override``.
   Default is `false`.

.. option:: OverrideSpelling

   Specifies a macro to use instead of ``override``. This is useful when
   maintaining source code that also needs to compile with a pre-C++11
   compiler.

.. option:: FinalSpelling

   Specifies a macro to use instead of ``final``. This is useful when
   maintaining source code that also needs to compile with a pre-C++11
   compiler.

.. note::

   For more information on the use of ``override`` see https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/override

Commit message:

[clang-tidy] Exclude template instantiations in modernize-use-override
Added IgnoreTemplateInstantiations option to modernize-use-override
check. Allows to ignore virtual function overrides that are part of
template instantiations. This can be useful in cases where the use
of the "override" keyword is not appropriate or causes issues with
template specialization.

Fixes #38276.

Reviewed By: carlosgalvezp

Differential Revision: https://reviews.llvm.org/D147924

clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/modernize/use-override.rst, after:

.. title:: clang-tidy - modernize-use-override

modernize-use-override
======================

Adds ``override`` (introduced in C++11) to overridden virtual functions and
removes ``virtual`` from those functions as it is not required.

``virtual`` on non base class implementations was used to help indicate to the
user that a function was virtual. C++ compilers did not use the presence of
this to signify an overridden function.

In C++ 11 ``override`` and ``final`` keywords were introduced to allow
overridden functions to be marked appropriately. Their presence allows
compilers to verify that an overridden function correctly overrides a base
class implementation.

This can be useful as compilers can generate a compile time error when:

 - The base class implementation function signature changes.
 - The user has not created the override with the correct signature.

Options
-------

.. option:: IgnoreDestructors

   If set to `true`, this check will not diagnose destructors. Default is `false`.

.. option:: IgnoreTemplateInstantiations

   If set to `true`, instructs this check to ignore virtual function overrides
   that are part of template instantiations. Default is `false`.

.. option:: AllowOverrideAndFinal

   If set to `true`, this check will not diagnose ``override`` as redundant
   with ``final``. This is useful when code will be compiled by a compiler with
   warning/error checking flags requiring ``override`` explicitly on overridden
   members, such as ``gcc -Wsuggest-override``/``gcc -Werror=suggest-override``.
   Default is `false`.

.. option:: OverrideSpelling

   Specifies a macro to use instead of ``override``. This is useful when
   maintaining source code that also needs to compile with a pre-C++11
   compiler.

.. option:: FinalSpelling

   Specifies a macro to use instead of ``final``. This is useful when
   maintaining source code that also needs to compile with a pre-C++11
   compiler.

.. note::

   For more information on the use of ``override`` see https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/override
