libcxx/docs/Status/Cxx2b.rst, before:

.. _cxx2b-status:

================================
libc++ C++2b Status
================================

.. include:: ../Helpers/Styles.rst

.. contents::
   :local:


Overview
================================

In November 2020, the C++ standard committee adopted the first changes to the next version of the C++ standard, known here as "C++2b" (probably to be C++23).

This page shows the status of libc++; the status of clang's support of the language features is `here <https://clang.llvm.org/cxx_status.html#cxx23>`__.

.. attention:: Features in unreleased drafts of the standard are subject to change.

The groups that have contributed papers:

-  CWG - Core Language Working group
-  LWG - Library working group
-  SG1 - Study group #1 (Concurrency working group)

.. note:: "Nothing to do" means that no library changes were needed to implement this change.

.. _paper-status-cxx2b:

Paper Status
====================================

.. csv-table::
   :file: Cxx2bPapers.csv
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: auto

.. note::

   .. [#note-P0533R9] P0533R9: ``isfinite``, ``isinf``, ``isnan`` and ``isnormal`` are implemented.
   .. [#note-P1413R3] P1413R3: ``std::aligned_storage_t`` and ``std::aligned_union_t`` are marked deprecated, but
      clang doesn't issue a diagnostic for deprecated using template declarations.
   .. [#note-P2520R0] P2520R0: Libc++ implemented this paper as a DR in C++20 as well.
   .. [#note-P2711R1] P2711R1: ``join_with_view`` hasn't been done yet since this type isn't implemented yet.

.. _issues-status-cxx2b:

Library Working Group Issues Status
====================================

.. csv-table::
   :file: Cxx2bIssues.csv
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: auto

.. note::

   .. [#note-LWG3798] LWG3798: ``join_with_view``, ``zip_transform_view``, and ``adjacent_transform_view`` haven't been done yet since these types aren't implemented yet.

Commit message:

[libc++][format] Implements formatter thread::id.
Since stacktrace header is WIP and it's not sure that will be done
before LLVM17 update the documentation. When the header is implemented
implementing the formatter is trivial, so that can be done quickly
afterwards.

Implements parts of:
 - P2693R1 Formatting thread::id and stacktrace

Reviewed By: #libc, ldionne

Differential Revision: https://reviews.llvm.org/D144331

libcxx/docs/Status/Cxx2b.rst, after:

.. _cxx2b-status:

================================
libc++ C++2b Status
================================

.. include:: ../Helpers/Styles.rst

.. contents::
   :local:


Overview
================================

In November 2020, the C++ standard committee adopted the first changes to the next version of the C++ standard, known here as "C++2b" (probably to be C++23).

This page shows the status of libc++; the status of clang's support of the language features is `here <https://clang.llvm.org/cxx_status.html#cxx23>`__.

.. attention:: Features in unreleased drafts of the standard are subject to change.

The groups that have contributed papers:

-  CWG - Core Language Working group
-  LWG - Library working group
-  SG1 - Study group #1 (Concurrency working group)

.. note:: "Nothing to do" means that no library changes were needed to implement this change.

.. _paper-status-cxx2b:

Paper Status
====================================

.. csv-table::
   :file: Cxx2bPapers.csv
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: auto

.. note::

   .. [#note-P0533R9] P0533R9: ``isfinite``, ``isinf``, ``isnan`` and ``isnormal`` are implemented.
   .. [#note-P1413R3] P1413R3: ``std::aligned_storage_t`` and ``std::aligned_union_t`` are marked deprecated, but
      clang doesn't issue a diagnostic for deprecated using template declarations.
   .. [#note-P2520R0] P2520R0: Libc++ implemented this paper as a DR in C++20 as well.
   .. [#note-P2711R1] P2711R1: ``join_with_view`` hasn't been done yet since this type isn't implemented yet.
   .. [#note-P2693R1] P1413R3: The formatter for ``std::thread::id`` is implemented.
      The formatter for ``stacktrace`` is not implemented, since ``stacktrace`` is
      not implemented yet.

.. _issues-status-cxx2b:

Library Working Group Issues Status
====================================

.. csv-table::
   :file: Cxx2bIssues.csv
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: auto

.. note::

   .. [#note-LWG3798] LWG3798: ``join_with_view``, ``zip_transform_view``, and ``adjacent_transform_view`` haven't been done yet since these types aren't implemented yet.
